---
layout: post
title: Summary of Domain Driven Design - Refactoring Toward Deeper Insight
---

Refactoring toward deeper insight is a multilevel process, it will be helpful to stop for a moment to see things togetherand try to get a different picture from the domain. Mainly, There are three aspects that you have to look at, first you need to live in the domain, it means that you have to live together with the domain to see the problems closer and often, so you can try different approachs to the same problems, which is what the second aspect say, you should keep looking at things in a different way and third, you will to be free to talk to a domain expert always needed. The classic refactoring scenario involves a developer or two sitting at the keyboard, recognizing that some code can be improved, and then changing it on the fly (with unit tests to verify their results, of course).

You can start your refactoring insights in different ways, it may be a response to a problem in the code or it can be some complexity you found on it, then, rather than apply a standard a change in the code, the developer notes that the main reason to this problem/complexity is related with the domain model, it could be a missing concept, or something wrong with relationships. In a departure from the conventional view of refactoring, this same realization could come when the code looks tidy, if the language of the model seems disconnected from the domain experts, or if new requirements are not fitting. Refactoring might result from learning, as a developer who has gained deeper understanding sees an opportunity for a more lucid or useful model.

Classical descriptions of refactoring sound very steady. Refactoring toward deeper insight usually isn't. A period of steady refinement of a model can suddenly bring you to an insight that shakes up everything. These breakthroughs don't happen every day, yet a large proportion of the changes that lead to a deep model and supple design emerge from them. Such a situation often does not look like an opportunity; it seems more like a crisis. Suddenly there is some obvious inadequacy in the model. There is a gaping hole in what it can express, or some critical area where it is opaque. Maybe it makes statements that are just wrong. This means the team has reached a new level of understanding. From their now-elevated viewpoint, the old model looks poor from that viewpoint, they can build a better one.